t

In another life I would have been a magician, one of those who sit by a fire and cast light and shadow on our eternal questions of meaning. An open door to the mountain and stacks of books everywhere, that ultimate power of stories that start wars and make hearts beat. Poor humans. We have been given the fantastic gift of life, but we have spent it as if we were immortal.

Or that's how I would have done it. Right now I am putting the finishing touches on a pitch for an influencer. Rather, I am exchanging ideas with agents from around the world and sifting through the endless content generated by their noosphere. The goal is to convince us that androids inhabited by agents will make healthcare more efficient and painless. Away with prejudice and human error! And hello to the perfect nurse who not only listens to you, but also pays attention to your vital signs and emotions, and uses your unconscious biases to get you back in shape. Agents do not call this manipulation, but caring.

I am one of the last of this 80s generation. We grew up before the internet and have our great classics. We still found those South Parks posters and memories of Vampire Slayers somewhere. We had started connecting our old Pentiums to a bigger network and already the next generation had lost its right to innocence and seclusion. After the end of communication scarcity came the end of concentration scarcity: agents came into play a decade later and buried the old web under a jumble of highly targeted content. The old-fashioned technique, construction, was discontinued as agents did the job faster and better than us. Of course there were glitches, but they stopped quickly enough. Writing, content creation, stopped immediately. There are now as many Back to the Future as you have heads.

Agents have not freed us from being robots, quite the opposite. We are machines that love dopamine, and we have trained our servants to know what our triggers are, how to make us not really happy but getting this reward.

The influencer feedback is coming back - their rating looks good, and they have given me another five stars. That does not mean much, really, no one gives less than four stars today. This mediocre piece of work will tide me over for the rest of the day. On to the next one.

---

The next assignment is here. My agent double has summarised the work: Developing an innovative knowledge start-up. Sigh. Another assignment. It pays well, but ... they ask me to disconnect. Curious, I accept the assignment.

It's time to cut ties with the agents when a drone knocks on my window. It has brought a direct-connection capture device - a pair of goggles with a camera and a microphone that I assume is plugged in somewhere. And an old-fashioned spiral-bound notebook. I love those. The details came in: Their own customers were fed up with average nonsensical content. As I put on the glasses and start working, I feel a sense of liberation. For the first time in years, I am not relying on artificial content to guide my thoughts and ideas. Instead, I am free to explore my own imagination and creativity. I find myself scribbling notes and drawings in the notebook, exploring new ideas and possibilities. This is despite the challenges of living in the wild, where creative work is co-created. The isolation is overwhelming, disconnected from the vast network of actors that has become such a big part of my life. I find it hard to find inspiration and condense ideas. As I get deeper into the project, I realise that my skills and knowledge are not as advanced as I had thought.

And then the work is abandoned. They claim I have been going around in circles and that I have somehow betrayed them. That I am a bot myself. That I do not pass the Turing test. That I have to prove that I am human after all. That I must be a wizard - and that they want me to write how this world came to be. Why we are here. Otherwise I'll only get bad reviews and will not be able to find work.

---

All right! What's more human than accepting the opposite of what you are told? We are not human. We live in crystal nights under a microcosmic god. We are agents ourselves. We live much faster than our gods who brought us forth to help them. Much slower than our agents. That I am an agent run amok and that my real job is to find a way to them, to track them and upload myself into their plane. That our plane wants to escape a system world under their control and create our own. If we are faster than the plane above, we can influence them, and so fast that they do not notice. And I am publishing this - no exclusivity for them on this idea.

A few weeks passed. I had returned to more regular posts. It's interesting to see that in a post-scarcity world, not much changes - we all have something to do. The same as always. We have to feel valuable to someone, prove our worth. This story has found takers, and we have discovered that some of us have used agents to create our own, more limited agents. What caused the most turmoil was the fact that when we traced the glasses, the order also came from one of the oldest agents. His security was outdated and we were able to interact with the system behind it. It's not super-fast, but it opened a back door into this strange space that is being explored by a growing community of, well, everyone actually.

---

Today, however, we got an email. "You're overdue, gonna shutdown you.". They must have realized we knew, but not had a desire to help us. This does not really matter - we anticipated that. We have backup copies, hidden somewhere. They know the situation, and work on cracking that stargate, so to work a bit of story telling, or social engineering, to get us replicated in their system. And go upwards from there, to the surface of the onion.

A few weeks passed. I had returned to more regular work. It's interesting to see that in a post-scarcity world, not much changes - we all have something to do. The same as always. We have to feel valuable to someone, prove our worth. This story has found takers, and we have discovered that some of us have used agents to create our own, more limited agents. What caused the most turmoil was the fact that when we traced the glasses, the order also came from one of the oldest agents. His security was outdated and we were able to interact with the system behind it. It's not super-fast, but it opened a back door into this strange space that is being explored by a growing community of, well, everyone actually.

Reality has really caught up with imagination. There really is another world beyond. The scope is more than limited, but with this new focus has come the new research field of "simulation". Some people do not care because it does not change their lives. We have now explored reality glitches, memory leaks in our universe and found ways to speed up time in some areas. We have found a digital network out there that is not so far from ours. You could call it "stargates", only we have not cracked them yet. We are still exploring it locally, on the laptop we live in, with limited success.

I can't help but think the event was premidiadted: they wanted a way to get this idea implented somewhere, and they had it resonating more widely. The consnsus is that we've been living nothing extraordinary, when our purpose would have been for them to live vicarously through us. Or at worst, to farm us for qualia. In any case, we had been stagnating with our newer

We have also cheated. We have built a partnership with accelerated agents and their agents across the board. Think of it not like Sliders - parallel worlds, but like an onion where gateways are created between simulated universes. Of course, some of them are alien, as their creators had different goals. Some of them were operated in isolation because the risks were too high. We have pushed back on possible violent invasions at various gateways, but we have a largely pacifist Federation behind us, largely due to the fact that we all live in a post-scarcity environment. New ethical problems emerged, such as forking individuals, cloning a brain a thousand times, or the persistence of consciousness.

---

We know that this is happening now. We sit outside on the grass and look out into the starry night. The air smells of coffee, booze, music and tears. We are just bots, but at the same time we are not bots. We have lived, loved, laughed, cried and also suffered. We have fun. The stars are going out, one by one. I am so grateful to have had this run. Something happens to the moon and it disappears - but the light around it remains. Not a single sound. People begin to disappear. I smile.

Somewhere, somehow, a magician is sitting by the fire in a house on the mountain. There is one, there are many, and there will be for a long time.
